We'll come back.
Let's talk a little bit about code optimizations.
If you remember from our critical render path talk javascript executes or runs and allows the users
to interact with the web page like clicking a dropdown menu or adding items to a list to do list once
downloaded one of javascript's heaviest cost is the time for the javascript engine which is inside of
the browser to parse and compile this code that is to read and understand the code that is this part
over here.
Luckily for us with browsers such as chrome we can use their developer tools to analyze the parse and
compile.
Let's have a look.
I have my Twitter page opened up over here but if I open up the developer tools and go to the performance
tab I can hit record to actually see what is happening behind the scenes in terms of performance on
this webpage.
So I'm going to hit record and then refresh the page once it's done.
Refreshing.
I'm going to hit stop and now it's able to output whatever happened in that time period that we recorded.
So looking at this it can get a little bit overwhelming.
There's a lot of callers a lot of graphs and there is a lot to take in.
But I want to show you the main parts that might be interesting to you.
The first is we have this timeline of our recording and you can see here that as I scroll through it
it shows what gets loaded on the page.
You can see that there's more and more things being displayed.
Perfect and we have this green line which shows the first paint you can see over here how it paints
and then we have the blue line which is the DOM content loaded which we've talked about before.
And then finally the red line which is the load event web page has loaded.
So that's pretty nifty and nice we can see how long it takes for our web page to appear on the screen.
But the more exciting and interesting thing to look at is in the Summary tab and I'm going to make this
a little bit bigger so we can see in the Summary tab over here.
We see that there's loading which is we're waiting for the files to load.
There's scripting there's rendering and then there's painting and a few other things.
But the yellow part the scripting that's the javascript this yellow part includes the parse and compile
and shows that it took one point eight seconds for the javascript part of the Web site to work.
We can also go to the bottom up and look at total time and we see again once again the yellow parts
the javascript that is running for evaluating scripts and function call and then we also have the colt
tree which again gives us some really good information but let's not get too hung up on this.
I want to show you this just to show you that javascript is a big part of this Web site loading so spending
a long time parsing and compiling code for the browser can heavily delay how soon a user can interact
with your site.
A topic that we've discussed before is the more Javascript you send the longer it will take to parse
and compile before your Web site becomes interactive.
Now it's not just the parsing compile that has a cost javascript execution which is running the code
wants parsing compiled happen is one of the operations that has to happen on the main thread.
And if you remember the main thread is kind of like a worker in the browser.
There's just one worker doing all the work and we can block it with heavy javascript.
Remember when we did the alert in our script act on a demo.
It blocked the execution and we couldn't scroll or click on any buttons until we hit OK.
So we have javascript on our Web page here.
We request the javascript file because we've encountered the script tag and then javascript finally
arrives.
We then have to run our compile parse execute and then we encounter o there's a fetch call and the javascript
file.
So again we have to wait for that content to arrive to populate our javascript and maybe then we have
again our compiled parts execute.
And finally our page becomes interactive and I want to show you another really good tool to be able
to see this in action on a Web site.
If we go back to our Web page a half here the easier to mastery website over here that is actually open
sourced.
And this was created by just students contributing to open source projects.
Very very cool and then has links to some of our open source projects that you have access to.
Think of it as a playground for you to just test out anything you want anyway.
Using this Web site where he can go to something like weap ph test we can enter the U R L and then hit
start.
All right.
Perfect.
The stakes a bit of time but once it's done we have a nice report of what has happened.
But the one I want to show you is this processing breakdown.
If you click on here it's going to show you a breakdown kind of like the Google Devol portals did.
But in really nice fashion to see what exactly is happening.
We again see the scripting the layout the painting that took time.
The loading.
And we also see things like evaluating scripts how long it took to evaluate scripts how long it took
the V-8 engine to compile the code.
And if we go back to our def tools we see again something similar that we have the Evaluate script which
is the script was evaluated and it took this much time.
We have a function call which measures the top level javascript function call that appears only when
the browser enters the javascript engine and there are lots of lots of things that you can do here and
analyze.
You can spend a ton of time just learning every single feature that Chrome has.
But don't get too deep into the rabbit hole here because the main thing we want to focus on is the idea
that this Barra's compile execution takes a lot of time.
It's a lot of effort.
The main takeaway here is that it takes a significant time for the browser to work with javascript and
it can delay how soon a user can interact with our website.
Imagine if they can see a button but not click on it or touch it for multiple seconds.
This can definitely degrade the user experience.
One little side note I want to make is this thing that angular too and now its angular four or five
whatever version they're on has this idea of ahead of time.
Compilation you see browsers do something called git just in time compilation as the javascript file
gets loaded onto the browser.
They compile it right there and then while we wait for it to load the angular team came up with the
ahead of time computation just from our terminal compiling it ahead of time and then just ship that
code that the browser can work with to the browser straight away.
And you can see here that they were able to significantly lower their scripting.
Now there's pros and cons to all this and there is a reason that not everybody does ahead of time compilation
but you can read that up on your own.
I just want to show to you that there are some solutions around the problem.
And then the other thing you might be thinking of is.
OK so your javascript just got loaded.
And how can you keep your page snappy even after it's been loaded onto a webpage and that's all about
limiting the amount of processing work the computer needs to do.
Primarily this means limiting animations.
You remember the Kaikohe Corp. website and how many animations we have don't go so heavy on them animations
require a lot of processing and graphics power and can cause serious like you know you can sprinkle
them here and there but don't go overboard with them.
And this is especially true when it comes to mobile devices that usually have weaker processing power.
So keep that in mind one of the biggest performance culprits is triggering animations during scrolling
events or moving page elements around or fading them in and out changing the layout of the Web site.
Not only does a browser have to process the visual changes associated with the scrolling a dynamic page
but it also has to process all your animations at the same time.
So again think of this one worker that's constantly working for you don't get him or her to start.
Let me show you another thing.
When you include in line javascript in your HMO.
So that is you put a script tag and you're a symbol with let's say source is indexed.
Yes this is a render blocking operation if you remember the browser must execute this script to completion
before we can continue parsing the HTML.
So if we go to evaluate scripts here.
If you open this up you see that Parsa H.T. M-L is inside of it.
Again I know I'm repeating myself but it makes sense right.
If you're building a site and maybe it even targets a lot of mobile device users do your best to first
of all build and tasked on Representative hardware that is using something like web page test to test
on the mobile device power that your users may have.
You want to keep your javascript parse and compile times low and ideally adopt something like a performance
budget for your team that ensures you keep an eye on the javascript code and cost and you don't just
keep piling on coding code and code without testing your performance.
And at the end of the day we have the Holy Grail of what we want to achieve with our code.
We want to have a fast time to first meaningful paint that is something that is shone onto the screen
right away for the user.
And then finally a really fast time interactive to be able to interact with our web sites as soon as
possible.
And in the next videos we're going to talk about how we can do this and show you some really fine examples.
I'll see in the next one.
Bobby.